[ADD] Quality: Measure quality check (#5760)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/quality/quality_check_types/measure_check.rst

check is assigned to a specific inventory, manufacturing, or work order, the check can be processed
on the order itself. Alternatively, a check can be processed from the check's page.

From the check's page
---------------------

To process a *Measure* quality check from the check's page, begin by navigating to
:menuselection:`Quality --> Quality Control --> Quality Checks`, and select a quality check. Follow
the :guilabel:`Instructions` for how to take the measurement.

After taking the measurement, record the value in the :guilabel:`Measure` field on the quality check
form.

On an order
-----------

To process a *Measure* quality check on an order, select a manufacturing order or inventory order
(receipt, delivery, return, etc.), for which a check is required. Manufacturing orders can be
selected by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`,
and clicking on an order. Inventory orders can be selected by navigating to
:menuselection:`Inventory`, clicking the :guilabel:`# To Process` button on an operation card, and
selecting an order.

On the selected manufacturing or inventory order, a purple :guilabel:`Quality Checks` button appears

> at the top of the page. Click the button to open the :guilabel:`Quality Check` pop-up window, which

Reviewer: Totally optional, minor wording change to refer to a something specific on the Odoo UI
```suggestion
at the top of the form. Click the button to open the :guilabel:`Quality Check` pop-up window, which
```

Reviewer: Optionally, we could provide an image to help readers visualize where they'd see that purple "Quality Checks" button :slightly_smiling_face: 
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/cbbcfae3-4b7a-4780-b574-216c4ebe6efc)

shows all of the quality checks required for that order.

To process a *Measure* quality check, measure the product as instructed, then enter the value in the
:guilabel:`Measure` field on the pop-up window. Finally, click :guilabel:`Validate` to register the
recorded value.

.. image:: measure_check/measure-check-pop-up.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A Measure quality check pop-up window on a manufacturing or inventory order.

If the value entered is within the range specified in the :guilabel:`Tolerance` section of the
|QCP|, the quality check passes and the pop-up window closes. The rest of the manufacturing or
inventory order can then be processed as usual.

> However, if the value entered is outside of the specified range, a new pop-up window appears, titled
> :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed`. The body of the pop-up shows a warning message that states, "You
> measured # units and it should be between # units and # units.", as well as the instructions entered
> in the :guilabel:`Message If Failure` tab of the |QCP|. At the bottom of the pop-up, two buttons
> appear: :guilabel:`Correct Measure` and :guilabel:`Confirm Measure`.

Reviewer: Optional rewording! Feel free to ignore. I personally got confused by "# units", but it wasn't like it was incomprehensible.
```suggestion
However, if the value entered is outside of the specified range, the :guilabel:`Quality Check
Failed` pop-up window appears, displaying a warning that the measurement deviates from the expected
range.

The pop-up also includes instructions on how to handle the wrong input, as entered in the
:guilabel:`Message If Failure` tab of the |QCP|. At the bottom of the pop-up, two buttons appear:
:guilabel:`Correct Measure` and :guilabel:`Confirm Measure`.
```

.. image:: measure_check/measure-check-failed.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Quality Check Failed" pop-up window.

If the measurement is incorrect and should be changed, select :guilabel:`Correct Measure`. Doing so
re-opens the :guilabel:`Quality Check` pop-up window. Enter the corrected measurement in the
:guilabel:`Measure` field, then click :guilabel:`Validate` to complete the check.

If the measurement is correct, click :guilabel:`Confirm Measure` instead, and the quality check
fails. Follow any instructions that were listed on the :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed` pop-up

> window.

Reviewer: "If the measurement is correct, ... and the quality check fails" is a little confusing to me because the wording, "measurement is correct" implies the check should pass. Instead, what do you think of the wording:
"If the measurement was entered correctly,
if the measurement was not entered correctly,..." ?

If a quality alert must be created, click the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button that appears at the
top of the manufacturing or inventory order after the check fails. Clicking :guilabel:`Quality
Alert` opens a quality alert form on a new page. For a complete guide on how to fill out the quality
alert form, view the documentation on :ref:`quality alerts
<quality/quality_management/quality-alerts>`.

On a work order
---------------

When configuring a |QCP| that is triggered during manufacturing, a specific work order can also be

> specified in the :guilabel:`Work Order Operation` field on the |QCP| form. If a work order is

Reviewer: Slightly confused seeing instructions on creating a quality checks in this section, when there's a dedicated section for creating quality checks above.

Just an idea: How about putting this in a note admonition block in the "Create a QCP" section above, with a distinction between creating a quality check on the MO vs a WO?

I'm *assuming* that if you create a QC on a MO, it's to evaluate the manufactured end product, but on a WO, it's to benchmark the progress of the manufacturing? Just a guess

specified, a *Measure* quality check is created for that specific work order, rather than the
manufacturing order as a whole.

*Measure* quality checks created for work orders must be processed from the tablet view. To do so,
begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`.
Select a manufacturing order that includes a work order for which a quality check is required. Open
the tablet view for that work order by selecting the :guilabel:`Work Orders` tab, and then clicking
the :guilabel:`📱 (tablet)` button on the order's line.

With tablet view open, complete the steps listed on the left side of the screen until the *Measure*
quality check step is reached. Upon reaching the check, the instructions for how to take the
measurement appear at the top of the screen. Enter the measured value in the :guilabel:`Measure`

> field above the instructions, the click :guilabel:`Validate`.

Reviewer: It would be useful to include a screenshot in the v16 tablet view here, to help the person following along to learn how to process a measurement quality check (:

However, if the measurement entered is outside of the specified range, a pop-up window appears,
titled :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed`.

The body of the :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed` pop-up window shows a warning message that states,
"You measured # units and it should be between # units and # units.", as well as the instructions
entered in the :guilabel:`Message If Failure` tab of the |QCP|. At the bottom of the pop-up, two
buttons appear: :guilabel:`Correct Measure` and :guilabel:`Confirm Measure`.

.. image:: measure_check/measure-check-failed.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Quality Check Failed" pop-up window.

If the measurement is incorrect and should be changed, select :guilabel:`Correct Measure`. Doing so
opens a new pop-up window, titled :guilabel:`Quality Check`. Enter the corrected measurement in the
:guilabel:`Measure` field, then click :guilabel:`Validate` to complete the check and move on the
next step of the work order.

If the measurement is correct, click :guilabel:`Confirm Measure` instead, and the quality check
fails. Follow any instructions that were listed on the :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed` pop-up
window.

> If a quality alert must be created, do so by clicking the :guilabel:`☰ (menu)` button, and selecting

Reviewer: when we use emojis, we describe what the emoji looks like in case the person's browser doesn't load the emoji. 
```suggestion
If a quality alert must be created, do so by clicking the :guilabel:`☰ (three horizontal lines)` menu button,
```
or
```suggestion
If a quality alert must be created, do so by clicking the :guilabel:`☰ (hamburger)` button,
```

=====================
Measure quality check
=====================

.. |QCP| replace:: :abbr:`QCP (Quality Control Point)`
.. |QCPs| replace:: :abbr:`QCPs (Quality Control Points)`

> In Odoo *Quality*, a *Measure* check is one of the quality check types that can be selected when
> creating a new quality check or quality control point (QCP). *Measure* checks prompt users to
> measure a certain aspect of a product and record the measurement in Odoo. For the quality check to
> pass, the recorded measurement must be within a certain *tolerance* of a *norm* value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Odoo *Quality* app, a *Measure* check is one of the quality check types that can be selected
when creating a new quality check or quality control point (QCP).

*Measure* checks prompt users to measure a certain aspect of a product, and record the measurement
in Odoo. For the quality check to pass, the recorded measurement must be within a certain
*tolerance* of a *norm* value.
```

> Create a Measure quality check
> ==============================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create measure quality check
============================
```

> There are two distinct ways that *Measure* quality checks can be created. A single check can be
> manually created. Alternatively, a |QCP| can be configured that automatically creates checks at a
> predetermined interval.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two distinct ways that *Measure* quality checks can be created. A single check can be
manually created, or a |QCP| can be configured that automatically creates checks at a predetermined
interval.
```

This documentation only details the configuration options that are unique to *Measure* quality

> checks and |QCPs|. For a full overview of all the configuration options available when creating a
> single check or a |QCP|, see the documentation on :ref:`quality checks
> <quality/quality_management/quality-checks>` and :ref:`quality control points
> <quality/quality_management/quality-control-points>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
checks and |QCPs|.

For a full overview of all the configuration options available when creating a single check or a
|QCP|, see the documentation on :ref:`quality checks <quality/quality_management/quality-checks>`
and :ref:`quality control points <quality/quality_management/quality-control-points>`.
```

Quality check
-------------

To create a single *Measure* quality check, navigate to :menuselection:`Quality --> Quality Control
--> Quality Checks`, and click :guilabel:`New`. Fill out the new quality check form as follows:

- In the :guilabel:`Type` drop-down field, select the :guilabel:`Measure` quality check type.
- In the :guilabel:`Team` drop-down field, select the quality team responsible for managing the
  check.
- In the :guilabel:`Instructions` text field of the :guilabel:`Notes` tab, enter instructions for
  how the picture should be taken.

.. image:: measure_check/measure-check-form-1.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A quality check form configured for a Measure quality check.

Quality control point (QCP)
---------------------------

> To create a |QCP| that will generate *Measure* quality checks automatically, navigate to
> :menuselection:`Quality --> Quality Control --> Control Points`, and click :guilabel:`New`. Fill out
> the new |QCP| form as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a |QCP| that generates *Measure* quality checks automatically, navigate to
:menuselection:`Quality --> Quality Control --> Control Points`, and click :guilabel:`New`. Fill out
the new |QCP| form as follows:
```

- In the :guilabel:`Type` drop-down field, select the :guilabel:`Measure` quality check type. Doing
  so causes two new fields to appear: :guilabel:`Norm` and :guilabel:`Tolerance`.

  - Use the first text-entry field of the :guilabel:`Norm` field to record the ideal measurement

>     that the product should conform to. Use the second text-entry field to specify the unit of
>     measurement that should be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    to which the product should conform. Use the second text-entry field to specify the unit of
    measurement that should be used.
```

  - The :guilabel:`Tolerance` field features two sub-fields: :guilabel:`from` and :guilabel:`to`.
    Use the :guilabel:`from` field to specify the minimum acceptable measurement, and the
    :guilabel:`to` field to specify the maximum acceptable measurement.

- In the :guilabel:`Team` drop-down field, select the quality team responsible for managing the
  checks created by the |QCP|.
- In the :guilabel:`Instructions` text field, enter instructions for how the measurement should be
  taken.

.. image:: measure_check/measure-check-qcp-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A QCP form configured to create Measure quality checks.

> Process a Measure quality check
> ===============================

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Process measure quality check
=============================
```

> Once created, there are multiple ways that *Measure* quality checks can be processed. If a quality
> check is assigned to a specific inventory, manufacturing, or work order, the check can be processed
> on the order itself. Alternatively, a check can be processed from the check's page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once created, there are multiple ways *Measure* quality checks can be processed. If a quality check
is assigned to a specific inventory, manufacturing, or work order, the check can be processed on the
order itself. Alternatively, a check can be processed from the check's page.
```

From the check's page
---------------------

To process a *Measure* quality check from the check's page, begin by navigating to
:menuselection:`Quality --> Quality Control --> Quality Checks`, and select a quality check. Follow
the :guilabel:`Instructions` for how to take the measurement.

After taking the measurement, record the value in the :guilabel:`Measure` field on the quality check
form. To manually pass or fail the check, click :guilabel:`Pass` or :guilabel:`Fail` at the top-left
corner of the check.

> Alternatively, if the quality check is assigned to a |QCP| for which *norm* and *tolerance* values
> have been specified, click :guilabel:`Measure` at the top-left corner of the check instead. Doing so
> automatically marks the check as *Passed* if the recorded value is within the specified *tolerance*,
> or *Failed* if the value is outside of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if the quality check is assigned to a |QCP|, for which *norm* and *tolerance* values
have been specified, click :guilabel:`Measure` at the top-left corner of the check instead. Doing so
automatically marks the check as *Passed* if the recorded value is within the specified *tolerance*,
or *Failed* if the value is outside of it.
```

On an order
-----------

To process a *Measure* quality check on an order, select a manufacturing order or inventory order

> (receipt, delivery, return, etc.), for which a check is required. Manufacturing orders can be
> selected by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`,
> and clicking on an order. Inventory orders can be selected by navigating to
> :menuselection:`Inventory`, clicking the :guilabel:`# To Process` button on an operation card, and
> selecting an order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(receipt, delivery, return, etc.), for which a check is required.

Manufacturing orders can be selected by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations
--> Manufacturing Orders`, and clicking on an order. Inventory orders can be selected by navigating
to :menuselection:`Inventory`, clicking the :guilabel:`# To Process` button on an operation card,
and selecting an order.
```

On the selected manufacturing or inventory order, a purple :guilabel:`Quality Checks` button appears
at the top of the page. Click the button to open the :guilabel:`Quality Check` pop-up window, which
shows all of the quality checks required for that order.

To process a *Measure* quality check, measure the product as instructed, then enter the value in the
:guilabel:`Measure` field on the pop-up window. Finally, click :guilabel:`Validate` to register the
recorded value.

.. image:: measure_check/measure-check-pop-up.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A Measure quality check pop-up window on a manufacturing or inventory order.

If the value entered is within the range specified in the :guilabel:`Tolerance` section of the
|QCP|, the quality check passes and the pop-up window closes. The rest of the manufacturing or
inventory order can then be processed as usual.

However, if the value entered is outside of the specified range, a new pop-up window appears, titled

> :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed`. The body of the pop-up shows a warning message that states, "You
> measured # units and it should be between # units and # units.", as well as the instructions entered
> in the :guilabel:`Message If Failure` tab of the |QCP|. At the bottom of the pop-up, two buttons
> appear: :guilabel:`Correct Measure` and :guilabel:`Confirm Measure`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Quality Check Failed`. The body of the pop-up window shows a warning message stating,
"You measured # units and it should be between # units and # units.", along with the instructions
entered in the :guilabel:`Message If Failure` tab of the |QCP|.

At the bottom of the pop-up window, two buttons appear: :guilabel:`Correct Measure` and
:guilabel:`Confirm Measure`.
```

.. image:: measure_check/measure-check-failed.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Quality Check Failed" pop-up window.

> If the measurement was not entered correctly and should be changed, select :guilabel:`Correct
> Measure`. Doing so re-opens the :guilabel:`Quality Check` pop-up window. Enter the corrected
> measurement in the :guilabel:`Measure` field, then click :guilabel:`Validate` to complete the check.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the measurement was **not** entered correctly, and should be changed, select :guilabel:`Correct
Measure`. Doing so re-opens the :guilabel:`Quality Check` pop-up window. Then, enter the corrected
measurement in the :guilabel:`Measure` field, and click :guilabel:`Validate` to complete the check.
```

If the measurement is correct, click :guilabel:`Confirm Measure` instead, and the quality check
fails. Follow any instructions that were listed on the :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed` pop-up

> window.

Reviewer 2: Is this the correct phrasing here? If the measurement is correct, and confirm measure is clicked, is there a reason the quality check would fail?

Just thought this was worth pointing out for a double-check to ensure the concept was conveyed in the correct way. 👍

If a quality alert must be created, click the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button that appears at the
top of the manufacturing or inventory order after the check fails. Clicking :guilabel:`Quality

> Alert` opens a quality alert form on a new page. For a complete guide on how to fill out the quality
> alert form, view the documentation on :ref:`quality alerts
> <quality/quality_management/quality-alerts>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alert` opens a quality alert form on a new page.

For a complete guide on how to fill out the quality alert form, view the documentation on
:ref:`quality alerts <quality/quality_management/quality-alerts>`.
```

On a work order
---------------

When configuring a |QCP| that is triggered during manufacturing, a specific work order can also be
specified in the :guilabel:`Work Order Operation` field on the |QCP| form. If a work order is
specified, a *Measure* quality check is created for that specific work order, rather than the

> manufacturing order as a whole.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
manufacturing order, as a whole.
```

*Measure* quality checks created for work orders must be processed from the tablet view. To do so,
begin by navigating to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations --> Manufacturing Orders`.

> Select a manufacturing order that includes a work order for which a quality check is required. Open
> the tablet view for that work order by selecting the :guilabel:`Work Orders` tab, and then clicking
> the :guilabel:`📱 (tablet)` button on the order's line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, select a manufacturing order that includes a work order for which a quality check is required.
Open the tablet view for that work order by selecting the :guilabel:`Work Orders` tab, and then
clicking the :guilabel:`📱 (tablet)` button on the order's line.
```

With tablet view open, complete the steps listed on the left side of the screen until the *Measure*
quality check step is reached. Upon reaching the check, the instructions for how to take the
measurement appear at the top of the screen. Enter the measured value in the :guilabel:`Measure`

> field above the instructions, the click :guilabel:`Validate`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
field above the instructions, then click :guilabel:`Validate`.
```

.. image:: measure_check/measure-tablet-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A Measure quality check in the Manufacturing tablet view.

If the measurement entered is within the range specified in the :guilabel:`Tolerance` section of the

> |QCP|, the quality check passes and the tablet view moves on to the next step of the work order.
> However, if the measurement entered is outside of the specified range, a pop-up window appears,
> titled :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|QCP|, the quality check passes, and the tablet view moves to the next step of the work order.

However, if the measurement entered is outside of the specified range, a pop-up window appears,
titled :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed`.
```

> The body of the :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed` pop-up window shows a warning message that states,
> "You measured # units and it should be between # units and # units.", as well as the instructions
> entered in the :guilabel:`Message If Failure` tab of the |QCP|. At the bottom of the pop-up, two
> buttons appear: :guilabel:`Correct Measure` and :guilabel:`Confirm Measure`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The body of the :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed` pop-up window shows a warning message stating, "You
measured # units and it should be between # units and # units.", along with the instructions entered
in the :guilabel:`Message If Failure` tab of the |QCP|.

At the bottom of the pop-up window, two buttons appear: :guilabel:`Correct Measure` and
:guilabel:`Confirm Measure`.
```

.. image:: measure_check/measure-check-failed.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Quality Check Failed" pop-up window.

> If the measurement was not entered correctly, and should be changed, select :guilabel:`Correct
> Measure`. Doing so opens a new pop-up window, titled :guilabel:`Quality Check`. Enter the corrected
> measurement in the :guilabel:`Measure` field, then click :guilabel:`Validate` to complete the check
> and move on the next step of the work order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the measurement was **not** entered correctly, and should be changed, select :guilabel:`Correct
Measure`. Doing so opens a new pop-up window, titled :guilabel:`Quality Check`. Enter the corrected
measurement in the :guilabel:`Measure` field, then click :guilabel:`Validate` to complete the check,
and move on to the next step of the work order.
```

If the measurement was entered correctly, click :guilabel:`Confirm Measure` instead, and the quality
check fails. Follow any instructions that were listed on the :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed` pop-up

> window.

Reviewer 2: same comment as before -- but fully disregard if it's all correct 👍

If a quality alert must be created, do so by clicking the :guilabel:`☰ (hamburger)` button, and
selecting :guilabel:`Quality Alert` from the :guilabel:`Menu` pop-up window. A :guilabel:`Quality

> Alerts` pop-up window appears, from which a quality alert can be created. For a complete guide on
> how to fill out the quality alert form, view the documentation on :ref:`quality alerts
> <quality/quality_management/quality-alerts>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alerts` pop-up window appears, from which a quality alert can be created.

For a complete guide on how to fill out the quality alert form, view the documentation on
:ref:`quality alerts <quality/quality_management/quality-alerts>`.
```

Measure`. Doing so re-opens the :guilabel:`Quality Check` pop-up window. Enter the corrected
measurement in the :guilabel:`Measure` field, and then click :guilabel:`Validate` to complete the
check.

If the measurement was entered correctly, click :guilabel:`Confirm Measure` instead, and the quality
check fails. Follow any instructions that were listed on the :guilabel:`Quality Check Failed` pop-up
window.

If a quality alert must be created, click the :guilabel:`Quality Alert` button that appears at the
top of the manufacturing or inventory order after the check fails. Clicking :guilabel:`Quality
Alert` opens a quality alert form on a new page.

For a complete guide on how to fill out the quality alert form, view the documentation on
:ref:`quality alerts <quality/quality_management/quality-alerts>`.

On a work order
---------------

When configuring a |QCP| that is triggered during manufacturing, a specific work order can also be
specified in the :guilabel:`Work Order Operation` field on the |QCP| form. If a work order is
specified, a *Measure* quality check is created for that specific work order, rather than the
manufacturing order as a whole.

> *Measure* quality checks created for work orders must be processed from the tablet view. To do so,

Reviewer 3: We will need to adjust for `saas-16.4` onwards
